So Tommy buns. Yep.
Tell me about the controversy surrounding your use of the R word in your last
special. Oh yeah, that was, cause that, that was,
that was bizarre.
It was a lot, man. Well.
It was also what I found interesting about it was people were
lying about the bit and they were doing it in articles
and they were doing it in email campaigns.
They were lying about the content of the bit. Yeah.
Were there were changing what you were saying in the bit and they had to be
doing it on purpose. They definitely didn't listen to the bit.
Yeah. And I think it took me a while to figure out what was,
what really was happening was that someone someone's agenda
or idea of what they want to accomplish is to highlight, um,
a campaign to eradicate saying a word.
And then they had a channel to pursue by having a
comedy bit that did it, that they could be like, let's,
let's go after it like this. Yeah. But it didn't, they didn't go. I mean,
you know, basically what it's funny thing is that like the,
that joke was something that I worked back
where I did that bit backwards. In other words,
I had the end piece of the bit, uh,
was that what I was doing by itself, which was a story about, I saw,
I witnessed a fight in Philly of a white guy and a black guy in the park and the
white dude was, you know, screaming and bombs and it was, it was nuts.
So I would tell that story. And then I would,
I worked backwards into getting into the story cause I always try to figure out
like, if something funny happens or something, I want to tell a story,
it's always better to figure out why are you telling the story than just to be
like, here's a story. Right? So I told the story of like the,
the fight in the park. And then I worked into like,
I figured out right before it I've talked about racial slurs and how, you know,
most racial slurs are not acceptable. And then I figured out, they were like,
unless they're like white, racial slurs are totally acceptable.
Like you call people mix and crowds and frogs, Paul locks, Guinea.
WAPs like this whole list of that.
And then I worked before that of just the way into saying that was like,
why should talk about words that you can't say that it kind of changed
over time? Right. So it was just like, one of those jokes is like, oh,
it's helping me get into the bit. You know? So I, I started the bit by saying,
uh, you can't say retarded anymore. That's the, that's the first line of the,
of the entire bit, which ended up being like eight or 10 minutes long.
And then people would say to me, like to start,
when I started getting mail about it, they were like, you know,
you can't say retarded. And I go, that's the line that I say like, yeah,
that's the line in the joke, but they.
Didn't hear the bet.
He just heard that you were doing a bit about the word retarded blue up.
Like once it got to a huge amount of, uh,
like when it was an organized, orchestrated campaign, you're right.
There was people messaging me that would say, um,
I heard you want to kill all children with downs and I'd be like, what?
Like where did you see that Facebook somewhere said it. Someone said it,
it does the messages I started again. And how.
Many people at the height of it sign this petition to get you like kicked off in.
Netflix over a hundred thousand. Yeah.
But here's the thing. Here's what, I mean,
I don't want to portray myself as a victim or anything. Right.
Like I, I did a bit, I can handle people not liking it or liking it. I mean,
a lot of people messaged me that they were into it and I just didn't share
those. Cause you don't want to be like, here's someone that said they like it.
You know, and people and people, even people with, uh,
children and siblings and, and uh, with announcement message me, you know,
I just didn't post those messages, but I dunno, I,
I'm not the victim in this whole thing at all. I learned,
I feel like I learned that when people are super upset about something,
you have to let them just be upset and be outraged. If they want to be outraged,
you know, that's you're right. It,
of course it's uncomfortable to me that you can't get out in front and be like,
Hey, you're, you're misrepresenting it. Right? Because people like,
even in the campaign language, it said like,
we want this bit taken out of the, of the joke. We went the, uh,
trailer for the special removed. And I was like, why?
And then I realized that the trailer has a joke that they're confusing
with the joke where I say retarded. Like there,
they think the two are related. What's the one on the trailer.
The one in the trailer is I say, uh, uh, like some, uh,
something's funny. Um, disabilities are not funny, but some are,
and it's a whole bit about obscure things like a foreign accent syndrome
and, oh.
Sorry, you just hit on the head.
And then they start speaking in a French accent. That was the setup to that bit.
Right.
And they were,
but they were saying they were basically making it where that setup is
about Down's or something. Do you know what I mean? Like that,
but they happen 40 minutes apart. One has nothing to do with the other,
but by not watching it by just watching the trailer, they're going, oh, see,
this is like how he's making fun of us. Right.
You will,
you shouldn't even have a point where you could say some disabilities are funny.
Right. You, she can't do that. Right. Yeah. That's what, that's what I was.
Told. It's it's what it is.
Is this new power that people have to complain. I mean,
if people have always complained,
but they haven't had the instantaneous access to complaining.
Right. Right. And then you can get,
and here's the thing I learned about kind of like mob mentality too.
That was like kind of fascinating to watch. I mean, I was in it,
so it's different. Once I could step back,
I realized that once you got sign up a certain message out, you know,
people would read the thing that says,
this guy hates people with downs and I'm like, what?
And that's not a hard to get behind. Oh yeah. So then people would just,
they would sign it. And I would also get messages that said things like, uh,
I didn't know, evil, like you existed in this world, you know, things like that.
And I'd be like, what? And you're ISIS.
I mean like really crazy stuff, man. And I, I didn't engage nearly, you know,
the, the, the amount of people that, that would contact me.
But I did engage a few. I did like go back and forth with one guy. He was like,
he opened, he was like, you sucking piece of.
I would stab you if I saw you on the street. And I go, what's this all about?
That was my, like my opening thing to him. And he was like, I heard you, uh,
you want to kill like everybody with down syndrome? And I'm like,
what are you talking about, man? And then we had a back and forth about,
about the bit. I'm like, you should go watch it, you know,
just watch it and then get back to me. And then he writes me and he was like,
yeah, yeah, yeah. Sorry. The way I spoke earlier, I didn't, I was like serious.
Well.
You're not going to stab me. Yeah. He saw me when it killed me.
You'd be in jail forever. They'd be like, uh, defendant, please rise.
Why'd you stab us? It's a girl. I didn't see the bits. I didn't watch.
I didn't watch the bed. Somebody told me he was, uh,
saying terrible things about it.
In the, and now in, in there. And people's defense who got upset.
Some people watched it and they're like, I saw it. And I think it's horrible.
And I think, you know, I'm like, okay. Yeah.
Yeah. But there's some people that if you just say the word,
say the word retarded, like, that's it. It's all it's over. You can't do that.
It's like so many other words. Yeah.
But it's gotten to the point where you don't even say the word,
like just saying it it's like, well, holy, what are you doing?
People will say the N word instead of it. Right.
And you're not even calling someone yet, but it just acknowledging it.
That that's a real word. It's like a forbidden thing. Part.
Of that, this campaign is to refer to it as the R word. Like,
don't say it right. You should never say it. I mean, weird man. Yeah.
I mean, you know, people, people were,
some people were very, very upset about it and you know, I,
I get why someone could be upset about it. It's not like I go, like,
I don't even understand how you could be upset. I mean, the natural thing,
I think if you're a comic is you, you want to walk someone through the joke.
But what you realize later is like somebody who's, uh, who's,
who's advocating to stop saying a word. Doesn't care.
The details of the joke. I mean, the joke,
here's the other thing that sucks about reading. People would read transcripts.
It's like transcripts have no intent tone. You know,
if you just read, people's like,
I know we've talked about what you're closing on now,
which we'll probably close out your special.
If you just type that out and give us the one they'd be like, you are like,
you're a horrible man, but it's, it's a couple of days. It's like,
it's in the context of a comedy show where there's an agreement between
performer and audience. It's the intent? Like what,
how did you intend this bit to go tone? I mean,
is it said satirically ironically that bit,
what I'm doing in the bit is, is basically lamenting,
but accepting that words are changing, right? Like that's the tone of it.
The tone of it is I'm going, like, can't say retard anymore. That sucks.
But I'm also like, all right, you know.
What I mean? Like you're saying, okay, I'm going to do.
It. And I make an example. Like,
one thing that people got really upset about was, like I said,
at the end of this bit of the retarded part, I say like, you gotta,
now you gotta be like that.
Your idea has an extra 21st chromosome. If you ask me. Right.
And then the next part,
the very next line that they would cut out when people were sharing this thing
is I go like, not the same meaning that the example was a purposely bad example.
Right? The joke is that if you were to say 21st chromosome, it's absurd.
It doesn't work. Like it wouldn't make there, but people would attack me and go,
like you're telling people to start saying that I I'm like no, I'm sharing that.
It's a bad idea.
I saw someone getting mad at someone calling someone stupid
because they were saying that's ablest do you know what abelist is?
Abelist uh, oh yeah, because you have you're of sound. You're able to,
you're able to do it. Yeah. Yeah.
Like, uh, if you.
Are mocking someone who's diminished mentally. Oh,
you idiot. That's ablest. Yeah, sure.
Which is crazy. Yeah. You're.
Able bodied their brain doesn't work so good. You're enabled list.
If you call them stupid. I mean,
it's going to get to the point where if you give up certain words, I mean,
if we keep going like this,
it's going to get to the point where we're just going to have a very hard time
communicating.
Yeah. I totally agree. I mean, there's, I don't know.
There's there's and here's the thing that it is an endless cycle. Yeah. I mean,
we just don't have that next unacceptable word. Right. You know,
like everybody knows.
I think a lot of people know that as far as somebody who's, uh,
doesn't have is developmentally disabled,
retarded was kind of the Mo the latest term. That was once acceptable.
It's clearly not now. I mean, that is kind of the point. But before that,
you know, moron was a medical term.
Wasn't yeah. Mongoloid.
Idiot was what they used to call 'em down syndrome. Children.
That was like a hundred years ago. It was on the birth certificate. Right.
But I'm saying.
You know, people who are saying, you know, just to stop saying,
they're not wrong, you know,
but there is also another word down the pipeline, right?
There's something else that's coming. That's going to be a medical word or term.
And then that'll be used to insult people.
But that's the way people use language. Like once we identify,
this is the word people use to label with a developmental
disability, people in the slang will grow from that.
People will start using that. Well.
What's interesting to me is that when we're talking about words,
you're not going to change the way people think.
So words are supposed to convey intent.
It's supposed to be sounds that we all agree, mean a certain thing.
And the more depth, the more access to words you have,
the more you can sort of flavor your conversation.
So I understand what you're saying. Like, if you're saying this guy,
I kind of get it, but you feel like this guy I'm like, well,
Tommy's is really mad. I mean that, and to take that out. Yeah. It's like,
I don't know.
So sometimes you take those things out when you're like on a television show or
something like that, but all television shows because of that,
all censored television shows only exists within a certain band.
Yes. A certain frequency. They'd never get out of that.
Like the Joey Diaz frequency is like, ah, there's no roof. There's no fence,
ah, true. This, this frequency that you get on,
like late night talk shows or a sit-com this very narrow band
that, that there's no concert in that band. There's no, you.
There's all those things are not in there.
I feel like whenever you're, for me, when I'm watching something like that,
part of my brain is always like, go find a somewhere now it's like,
you kind of want it. Yeah. Especially.
Now we're, we're just, we're so used to being free,
especially us because of podcasts and live, say live, stand up, you know?
And I was going to bring this up, like your show,
like your show that you do with your wife, your mom's house,
if anybody just wanted to go cherry pick things and write
them down,
write some of the things you guys joke around about where you're clearly joking,
but take it and write it down in quotes. And then Tom said to his wife,
oh yeah. And by.
The way, 100,000 times worse than anything in life stainable ever said. Yeah.
It said on that podcast, I mean, it's not even comparable.
It's so much worse. The content, I think it's like,
we don't go into the show of like, let's be offensive,
but we play in a no rules.
Like have fun environment. Yeah. You know, it's like free flowing,
just say whatever. And that's the fun of the show.
Yeah. And it's also, everybody knows you're joking around.
Yeah. The fan base is like a hundred percent on board with like,
this is UN you know, uncensored, just loose,
fun going for it, going for jokes.
Well, what I also found too, is that during this whole controversy,
after your special was released, yeah. You got bigger.
It's like people, they,
by doing that campaign and then people who did investigate, they go, actually,
this guy's really funny. I.
Mean, I got, I used to, you know, again,
I never publicize these things because it's gross you to be like,
check out this compliment or whatever. Right. But like,
I got so many messages from people who are like, I saw this thing on the news.
Cause it was on a lot of local news that there's a controversial Netflix
thing out there. People would message me. And I saw this thing.
So I decided to check you out, new fan, just bought tickets to see you at blah,
blah, blah. So I started to get a bunch of messages.
Like that. Sure.
Because you're going to get 30% of the people that aren't even going to read it.
They're just going to call you a piece of. Yeah.
But the other people are going to go, what is going on over here?
And then next thing you know,
they're going to investigate and they're going to go, what they're doing,
this guy dirty. And then boom.
I got a lot of, I got a lot of support that I never, like I said,
I never made light of the fact that people were being supportive,
but people were being very supportive.
It just seems like there there's different,
there's different rules now for stand up and you got to really cover your.
But in your case you did cover your and they disingenuously left
that part out. Like they deceptively left that out.
When they were writing down what you had said,
they didn't put it in the context. It's.
True. And I, and then, you know, part of you goes, uh, man, like I don't,
I'm not trying to paint myself as a martyr or, you know what I mean? Or,
and like people who are going down this path of, you know,
they have family or friends with, uh, disabilities. It's like, uh,
I'm not gonna, my whole thing was never to attack them.
So I'm not going to try to make it a, a battle that I have to win.
So it w once, once I saw like, kind of what I thought clearly was happening,
I was like, you know,
just let people vent their frustration about if it's about me or about what I
said, just let it happen. And, um, you know, cause I don't,
I don't hold it against them. That they're,
that they ha that they're upset about this issue. Right. You know,
and even though like you're saying your instinct is, is, wants to go, like,
hold on. Why don't you put it clearly? Right. I said, after a moment of it,
I realized that, like, that kind of, wasn't the point for me in that,
in that time I was like, just let people. Yeah.
Because I also figured out that if people, yeah,
a lot of people were going to read it,
say something and go like this guy's the worst.
And it's kind of feels good sometimes to be like,
you want to know who a bad guy is this guy. And I, you know,
even though you want to be like, Hey, I'm not that bad of a guy. Uh,
if someone wants to just go there,
you just kind of have to let it go and then let the people who were enjoying it
or who were investigating it and finding like, oh,
it's a little different than it's being presented. Yeah.